a question I've been getting for a long
time, years, never have addressed it.
And I'm gonna explain why because for
years I've been doing something I
couldn't really tell you guys about.
What I've been doing is for the last 2
years I've been using fast acting
testosterone. [music]
[music]
Hi, my name is John Jish. I'm a doctor
of biomedical engineering which gives me
a unique perspective on a lot of
different things. I read different
research. I
am able to pull things or I mean I
suppose anybody's able to do this but
I'm conditioned to pull research from
not just sports performance but other
areas of medicine because I got started
in medical device. That's where my my
career launched and I invented a a
medical device to treat osteoporosis.
And that adventure sent me in a very
different direction and gave me some
abilities that I believe maybe not
abilities, habits that I believe get me
to some different and more productive
conclusions than the standard
influencers that you listen to.
So today I want to talk about a question
I've been getting for a long time,
years, and
never have addressed it and I'm going to
explain why because for years I've been
doing something I couldn't really tell
you guys about. So just because there's
nothing you could have done about it.
What I've been doing is for the last 2
years I've been using fast acting
testosterone all based on a premise of
how I wanted my testosterone replacement
therapy [snorts] to mirror the natural
up and down regulations of testosterone.
So normally you have high testosterone
in the morning and low at night. But
injectable TRT just keeps you high all
the time which is where all the side
effects are coming from. Uh, and I
presented an infographic in another
video which I'll put in the comments so
you can check out that one too. But I
want to make it crystal clear that as I
was getting this and the the question I
kept on getting was, "Hey, you know,
you're you're in your late 40s. I'm 49
now, but I've been getting this question
for a couple years. You're in your late
40s. You've been doing TRT for 20 plus
years. You didn't get much results out
of it until you started training in a
better way, which is true. Why not just
do a cycle of steroids to find out
what would happen? Like what would be
the difference between your TRT and a
cycle of steroids? Now I think the
question is awful strange because well
maybe not because a lot of things you've
been told about anabolic drugs are just
like grotesque exaggerations.
And you know, if you watch the news in
the '90s, it was like, okay, if you ever
touch these pharmaceuticals, you will
become a psychopathic murderer and you
will be suicidal and probably kill your
whole family or whatever. And I think
that happened with a couple athletes who
had used steroids. Chris Benw being one
that's off the top of my head. Very sad
story. [snorts]
But the reality is there's really no
evidence that connects psychopathic
behavior with anabolic drugs. I think uh
what ended up happening was some people
have psychopathic behavior and if they
happen to be on anabolic drugs, it makes
the news because you know you're
somebody who chooses to use these these
chemicals and exercises, they're kind of
like a walking billboard for like drug
use. So, I understand why the press does
that. Ultimately, they're just trying to
get you to watch. They don't really care
to tell the truth. It's really just
about selling advertising space to them.
The more people that watch the news, the
more ads they can sell in general,
that's part of the reason why I don't
pay attention to the news. I understand
that some of that is still believed by
people, but also I don't think anybody
should do cycles of steroids because the
reason you do a cycle is to keep your
body from catching up and compensating
for the added anabolic drugs. So what
happens is something called SHBG, sex
hormone binding globbulin goes up and
tries to cancel out the testosterone
because your body's like, "Whoa, this is
way too high." But really, it's way too
high at night, which is different. So if
you have higher testosterone at the
beginning of the day, the body doesn't
see it as a problem. And so that's what
I've been doing for two years. So,
there's a two-part answer why I would
never do a cycle of anabolic drugs is
number one, that's a terrible idea and
nobody should do that and uh these
chemicals are dangerous and they should
be used in accordance with what a
physician would say if a physician has
determined that you need it. So, like
like sometimes I get a text messages,
hey, how do I how do I beat the blood
test so I get a prescription for TRT?
Don't. That's a wrong mindset to have
because if you need to beat the blood
test, that means you have a healthy
level of testosterone. That means don't
mess with anything. You're good.
So, that's point number one. Point
number two is I knew that the dosing
for all of these things, whether it's
TRT or cycles of steroids, is actually
creating this SHBG problem, which is,
you know, the steroid user cycles the
drug. So, they avoid that. The TRT user
just has a little bit of the effect.
SHBG goes up somewhat and
basically most of what they're injecting
is being canceled out and they don't get
much of a benefit. Like you'll see
people who follow TRT and you'll ask
them how much muscle did you put on? The
answer is usually none or maybe a few
pounds or well I feel better. You
definitely do feel better. You feel
better because you need it but also
you're causing a bunch of problems. It's
ultimately you you just want the right
level at the right time and fast acting
testosterone is how I have approached
that and that's how I'm going to
continue because as I'm doing
testosterone replacement therapy with
this fast acting daily dosing of
testosterone I never upregulate SHPG. So
basically I get the benefit from like a
mini cycle which lasts 2 hours in my
bloodstream populates all the receptor
sites. I'm primed to grow. If I train
within that period and I have the proper
amount of protein protein is the only
thing that matters.
Then I grow. And for the last two years
I've been growing every day I trained.
Uh another thing about fast acting
testosterone is it doesn't shut you
down. You can go on and off it whenever
you feel like it. Now, I wouldn't
necessarily recommend doing that because
you need it for a reason because you're
low. But even in that scenario,
it doesn't shut you down. So, you have
your natural testosterone, even if it's
low, it's still going to be there.
Whereas, if you get on standard TRT, you
really crash your natural ability. And
if you're on it for an extended period
of time, that is difficult, if not
impossible, to dig your way out of. I
hope this helped. I hope that I helped
some people avoid that decision of uh
doing a cycle because I do not recommend
that. And I got I have a funny anecdote
here. I was in a National Geographic
documentary a couple years ago, which
was being filmed at Tony Hughes's house,
which is not that far away from my
place. I did an interview with National
Geographic and I explained how my
position is to get the most out of the
natural amount whether it's TRT or if
your body's functioning correctly and
you have the proper amount of
testosterone. Most people don't have the
proper amount of testosterone. Most men
uh because our diets are horrible. The
standard American diet and any soy
products damage your ability to produce
testosterone. uh lack of sleep, alcohol,
almost everything we're doing is
screwing up testosterone. So, a lot of
people end up needing it, but this
method of fast acting testosterone
absolutely superior. And I think if even
a steroid user started on TRT like this,
I do not think that individual would
want to go back to doing cycles of
steroids because they certainly are
experts on the side effects and you get
to avoid all those and you get to gain
in perpetuity. Maybe not as much, but
you don't have to cycle off of it. So if
you gain half as much as you would on
cycle
and you never need to take a break from
it, you end up head.
Keep that in mind. If you think I'm
wrong, tell me in the comments and I'll
uh I'll put all the references and stuff
in there uh to help clarify some of
these questions. Please ask the
questions and I'll see [music] you on
the next video. If this video helped
you, I want you to subscribe and follow.
I'm going to put out videos on a regular
basis. I think they're going to help a
whole lot of people. Especially if
you're one of those people that doesn't
just instantly grow from lifting regular
weights. [music] We've got the answer
for you.